This readme file was generated on 2025-05-16 by Jennifer Abel


# GENERAL INFORMATION

Title of Dataset: RDM Jumpstart - General Social Survey, Cycle 29, 2015 [Canada]: Time Use

## Author Information
Name: Jennifer Abel
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2294-7495
Institution: University of Calgary
Address: 2500 University Drive NW, Calgary, Alberta, T2N 1T2
Email: jennifer.abel@ucalgary.ca

## Author/Associate or Co-investigator Information
Name: Nick Rochlin		
ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0772-9342
Institution: University of Victoria
Address: 3800 Finnerty Rd, Victoria, BC V8P 5C2
Email: nrochlin@uvic.ca 

## Data Collection Info 

* Date of data collection: May 12-16, 2025
* Geographic location of data collection: Canada
* Information about funding sources that supported the collection of the data: This project was funded by the Digital Research Alliance of Canada


# SHARING/ACCESS INFORMATION

* Licenses/restrictions placed on the data: CC-BY-SA
* Links to publications that cite or use the data: n/a
* Links to other publicly accessible locations of the data: n/a
* Links/relationships to ancillary data sets: n/a
* Was data derived from another source? Yes
	* If yes, list source(s): https://odesi.ca/en/details?id=/odesi/doi__10-5683_SP3_RDS0CK.xml 
* Recommended citation for this dataset: Abel, Jennifer, 2025, "Test for how contributor plus-es work in this collection", https://doi.org/10.80240/FK2/HV57JB, Borealis, v. 1.0


# DATA & FILE OVERVIEW

## File List: 

File: jumpstart.Rmd
Description: The RMarkdown file which contains the R code used to clean, manipulate, and create visualizations of the data.

File: js_TimeUse_dictionary.md
Description: A markdown version of the data dictionary for Timeuse_day1_na.tsv, which can be edited and updated.

File: js_TimeUse_dictionary.pdf
Description: A PDF version of the data dictionary for Timeuse_day1_na.tsv, for easier viewing compared to the markdown document.

File: renv.lock
Description: A file generated by the renv package in R, that records the exact state of the R project for reproducibility.  To recreate the fully reproducible environment using the `renv.lock` file, you will need to install renv first on your local machine. Then, run renv::activate(), which gets renv up and running in the project, followed by renv::restore(), which rebuilds your R environment on their machine.  Read more about the renv package at [https://rstudio.github.io/renv/articles/renv.html](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/articles/renv.html)

File: js_Timeuse_day1_RawData.tsv
Description: The original dataset that was read into jumpstart.Rmd, and was derived from the General Social Survey, Cycle 29, 2015 [Canada]: Time Use dataset, after having removed many variables and accounting for NA values.

File: js_Timeuse_FinalData.tsv
Description: The final product of the Timeuse_day1_na.tsv and the manipulations performed by the jumpstart.Rmd code.

File: js_TimeUse_FinalData.RData
Description: The final product of the Timeuse_day1_na.tsv and the manipulations performed by the jumpstart.Rmd code, saved as an RData file to promote reproducibility.

# METHODOLOGICAL INFORMATION

## Description of methods used for collection/generation of data: 
Original data is derived from the General Social Survey, Cycle 29, 2015 [Canada]: Time Use dataset, with many variables having been removed for the sake of instruction, and NA values having been accounted for.  See https://odesi.ca/en/details?id=/odesi/doi__10-5683_SP3_RDS0CK.xml  for more information about the data.


## Methods for processing the data: 

Data processing was conducted in an RMarkdown file, with each step documented above code chunks.


## Instrument or software-specific information needed to interpret the data: 

The R coding language was used to process this data:
R Version: 4.5.0
Packages: Tidyverse, dplyr, ggplot2, renv



